just about any time I share anything
from my garden I get asked the same
question hey how do you make those
arched trellises so today we're going to
show you
[Music]
when we first started planning our
garden I knew that we were going to be
doing raised beds and in that I wanted
to make sure that we were able to
utilize the space as much as possible
I've seen a thing on Pinterest where
someone built an arch out of some
fencing but I knew I wanted to be able
to plant some heavy stuff like melons
and I got to thinking about what we had
around our farm and I knew we had some
cattle panels which led to this so how
much does it rellis like this cost
first you need a cattle panel which they
are 18 feet long they are around 20 to
25 dollars you can call around to find
the best deal we found one particular
place here in town that has them for
$19.99 which is about six dollars
cheaper than some of the other local
feed stores and if you're gonna be
buying several of them that adds up the
other thing you're going to need is two
t-posts also something that very store
by store but you know on the high end
you're looking at about five dollars
each we use six-foot t-posts for these
but you could do you know a little you
could use a 7-footer of five but it
would probably work just about the same
and the last thing you need is some zip
ties
you could also probably use some sort of
fastener the zip ties are cheap and easy
and we've had these on here for two
seasons now and they haven't failed us
yet another benefit of zip ties is that
they're very easy to take down so if you
want to move the arch you can do that so
all in all what you're looking at for
one of these arch arch trellises is
something around the range of 30 to 35
dollars pretty affordable really also
you'll notice that our cattle panels are
in raised beds which mean that means
that they're about a foot off the ground
to start with so as you can see our
arches are a lot higher up based on my
lovely models here these are six foot
plus men and there's plenty head space
for them however if you had these
trellises on the ground they would not
be nearly as tall though I think they
they would still be tall enough for
full-size people to walk
so far I've grown a lot of things on
these trellises I really like the option
of vertical gardening because it really
expands this space you have it's easy to
pick things when they're up and it's
beautiful to grow things this way just
real quick we're gonna take a look at
our trellises and I'm just going to show
you some of the things that I currently
have growing in my garden or on the
trellises that I'm showing you how to
build these are scarlet runner beans
lima beans
here are some pole green beans and
yellow beans down here we have some
pickling cucumbers as well as some
slicer cucumbers right here is a large
winter squash called warded Incan
creampuff and this is actually one seed
planted and it's going all over this
trellis here are some dried pole beans
you can see them on this trellis we have
two different kinds of melons here on
this side is a banana knowin and if you
grow large melons such as this one on a
trellis you just have to offer some sort
of support some people use produce bags
some people use pantyhose and then this
side is a much smaller melon collective
farm woman on this is another small
personal sized melon called kajari as
you can see it's got quite a lot and
they're doing really well just hang in
here we have noodle beans
down here I've got a tomato variety
called climbing triple crop that is said
to vine up to 14 feet so I went ahead
and tried it on one of these trellises
so far it's only the end of June and
it's already a good ways up I think it
will probably make it to the top of the
trellis this year and it's offering it
the perfect support because this is very
these are very heavy laden plants and
again on this trellis I've got a couple
different kinds of cucumbers as you can
see there's some pickling cucumbers and
over here some Armenian white and my
last arch trellis right here has some
beans on this side which are kind of a
pole runner type bean and then on this
side I've got some really young Keuka
melons but they will grow like wild and
cover cover this side as well we
actually already have 13 arch trellises
in our very large garden now but we went
and got one more cattle panel for the
last space that we could put one because
I really wanted to do a video to show
you guys how we put these together
because we get asked about it so much so
my handy homesteading husband has
incurred an injury got to go catching a
goat so he is on the mend we're waiting
to hear some results back on that and
we're hoping that it's not a big deal so
we have asked Daniel to come over from
next door
to drop these T posts so I can take this
video and we can show you guys how to do
this
you guys ready teamwork makes the dream
work right so this is going to be the
same whether you're doing this in raised
beds or
it's the same process so you're going to
go ahead and drop your first key post in
the ground with the notches facing you
you want to leave a little bit of space
here with a raised bed because we're
going to pull the panel down and you
want to have room to plant it on the
inside a little tip do not go too far up
with this because if you do it will come
down and bust you in the hay so we've
got one t-posts driven into the ground
and we've just butted this cattle panel
up into it and this is this is typically
a two-person job
and you begin bending it down and we're
going to put it in place on the other
side at this point one person holds this
cattle panel in place while the other
person puts the t-post end but sit
upright against it now remember we are
leaving space here between the panel and
the bed because we want to be able to
plant our plant on the inside of that
panel and now we're gonna drive this
post in right there and secure okay so
now it's secured between here and now we
just want to line it up and make sure
that the T post is pretty much in the
middle of the panel and at this point
we'll just go ahead and secure that
cattle panel to the T post on both sides
with zip ties it's not really an exact
science for this
say you want to talk about what classes
appetizers are I think I just made that
up
Fabio class be - 72 yeah you're good at
improvising that probably is like some
kind of grade on them but I don't care
they're boys at pies IBAMA
Depot we got a thousand for 20 bucks and
we probably used like 500 of them and
our cars are but you can't you zip ties
instead of bullets I just use like
twelve lip ties at this point we could
plan it I'm gonna wait for fall planting
obviously I have enough stuff growing
already for this summer but these are
super easy to do at the end of the year
whenever you are done with your growing
season if you are planning on
reconfiguring your garden you know
trading out where things are planted
these are super easy to take down you
can lay the cattle plant panels flat and
set them back up the next year or if you
want to leave them up they do fine we've
had a couple of ours that have been
standing for a couple of seasons now and
some of them we took down and then put
back up this year that's really just
preference and however you plant your
garden whatever works for you and really
briefly I'm just going to show you just
a couple of the other ways we use cattle
panels here we've taken some cattle
panels and we've cut them into thirds
put two of the pieces together fastened
at the top with a zip tie and stuck in
here's another teepee use is built the
exact same way with Keuka melons on one
side and tomatoes on the other
here we have taken just one long cattle
panel and use three t posts to attach it
we've grown peas on this right now it's
got a couple of beans and down on the
end a Q come some more cattle panel
pieces here these are just some smaller
posts these have tomato plants on them
and this is just a piece that is
actually 1/3 of a panel that we put up
right it we groupies on it a couple
months ago and here are the trellises we
did for our Tomatoes this year which I
did another video showing how these are
made these are cattle panels and there
are long ways but they have about 18
inches underneath so they are attached
to these t post about 18 inches up so
that they have more vertical space for
tomatoes to climb upwards there you go
this is a really great way to add
functionality to your garden by vertical
gardening you eliminate sickness you
make it easier to harvest things because
they're right there in front of you and
just altogether add a lot of beauty to
the garden and with cattle panels it's
relatively easy to do and quite
affordable so I hope that helps somebody
and we will see you guys next time
happy gardening
[Music]